README.md, before:

# Bowling-Game-Kata-PHP
TDD bowling game kata

# Rules

The game consists of 10 frames. In each frame the player has two rolls to knock down 10 pins. The score for the frame is the total number of pins knocked down, plus bonuses for strikes and spares.
A spare is when the player knocks down all 10 pins in two rolls. The bonus for that frame is the number of pins knocked down by the next roll.
A strike is when the player knocks down all 10 pins on his first roll. The frame is then completed with a single roll. The bonus for that frame is the value of the next two rolls.
In the tenth frame a player who rolls a spare or strike is allowed to roll the extra balls to complete the frame. However no more than three balls can be rolled in tenth frame.

# Requirements
Write a class `Game` that has two methods

`void roll(int)` is called each time the player rolls a ball. The argument is the number of pins knocked down.

`int score()` returns the total score for that game.

# Follow up
It has been added the [Robert C. Martin](BowlingGameKata.pdf) solution in the code base in pdf format 

# Development environment
- It requires `docker`
- Execute the following commands

```
$> make build
$> make up
$> make install 
```

- To execute the tests execute
```
$> make tests
```

- To generate the coverage at the `build/coverage` folder execute
```
$> make coverage
```

- The solution kata will be implemented and explained at the `README.md` file at the `solution` branch

# Solution
- The whole solution will be implemented following the `TDD` strategy
- For each implementation the 3 `TDD` steps will be explained in detail
    - `RED` -> fail, writing a failing test
    - `GREEN` -> fix, make the test pass quick
    - `BLUE` -> refactor, clean up the code and introduce any design if it is required
    - `NONE` -> refactor and fixes which are manly related to mistakes, findings or adding documentation out of the `TDD` process
- At every step the code coverage will be checked
- Let's start creating unit tests considering that the `Game` has a single frame and cover all the logic for a single frame
    - Edge cases
        - The `Game` does not accept negative `pins` for the `roll` method
            - `RED`: Write one unit test for the `roll` method passing negative `pins` value. Notice that the `roll` method does not even exist at this point
            - `GREEN`: Add method `roll` at `Game` class and throw an exception
            - `BLUE`: Nothing to refactor at this point. Let's continue :)
        - The `Game` allow to roll `1` `pin`
            - `RED`: write one unit test for the `roll` method passing `1` as num of `pins` parameter. Also the test would call to the not existent yet `score` method
            - `GREEN`: 
                - fix the test fast, adding a safe guard to check whether the `pins` is negative to throw the exception 
                - implement `score` method returning `1`
            - `BLUE`:
                - refactor `GameTest` to use `setUp` method to create the `Game` sut
                - implements early return at `Game roll` method in case positive or zero number
        - The `Game` does not allow more than `10` pins to be rolled
            - `RED`: Falling test try to `roll` more than `10` pins
            - `GREEN`: add to the safe guard the condition of less than `10` pins at the `roll` method
            - `BLUE`: 
                - refactor `Game roll` method to make to early returns when `pins` is negative number and when it is greater than `0`
                - refactor extract `pins` value into a variable in `GameTest` class
    - Return the real `score` value
        - `RED`: Failing test that when `roll` `2` pins `score` returns `1`
        - `GREEN`: Introduce `pinsRolled Game class field` to save the current `pins rolled` value
        - `BLUE`: Not further refactors have been identified in this iteration. Moving forward :D
    - Implements `spare` logic for a single frame
        - `RED`: failing unit test knocking down the 10 `pins` in 2 `rolls`, `score` should return `10` plus `3` which are the `pins` knock down into the next third `roll`
        - `GREEN`: sum the `pinsRolled` up
        - `BLUE`: 
            - refactor `GameTest` methods to add the `score` method name
            - refactor `Game` extracting guard logic into a method
    - Implements `spare` logic for a 2 frames
        - `RED`: failing unit test knocking down 10 `pins` in 2 `rolls`, `score` should return `10` plus the `pins` for next `frame` `3 + 3 = 6` plus `3` extra points for the `spare next roll`
        - `GREEN`: introduce array structure to store `frame` information 
            - take me a little bit more time than usual and it is not unfortunatelly a baby step. Nevertheless, I did not know how to do a shorter baby step
        - `BLUE`:
            - Turning `currentFrame` structure into integer and just use `frames` structure to store the `roll`
            - Return `reduce` response directly removing the `score` variable at `score` method
            - Update first `roll1` frame instead of checking every time the `currentFrame`
    - Implements `strike` logic
        - `RED`: failing tests that when in the first `roll` knock all pins down, the next 2 `rolls` should not just add up to the current `frame` but also to the previous one
        - `GREEN`: fix the test adding the `strike` logic at the `Game` class
        - `BLUE`:
            - refactor `score` anonymous function add `int` return type hint
            - refactor move `spare` logic into process `roll1` logic
            - refactor extract paragraph code into methods
                - extract first main `roll` logic into a method call `processFrame`
                - extract `roll1` and `roll2` logic into other methods
                - extract `processSpare` and `processStrike` into methods
    - Implements 10th frame logic
        - Implements when 10th frame without `spare` or `strike` has finished, no more rolls are allowed
            - `RED`: unit test that implements the logic of no more roll allowed at 10th frame without `spare` or `strike`

Commit message:

GREEN - throw an exception when try to roll in a frame greather than 10th frame

README.md, after:

# Bowling-Game-Kata-PHP
TDD bowling game kata

# Rules

The game consists of 10 frames. In each frame the player has two rolls to knock down 10 pins. The score for the frame is the total number of pins knocked down, plus bonuses for strikes and spares.
A spare is when the player knocks down all 10 pins in two rolls. The bonus for that frame is the number of pins knocked down by the next roll.
A strike is when the player knocks down all 10 pins on his first roll. The frame is then completed with a single roll. The bonus for that frame is the value of the next two rolls.
In the tenth frame a player who rolls a spare or strike is allowed to roll the extra balls to complete the frame. However no more than three balls can be rolled in tenth frame.

# Requirements
Write a class `Game` that has two methods

`void roll(int)` is called each time the player rolls a ball. The argument is the number of pins knocked down.

`int score()` returns the total score for that game.

# Follow up
It has been added the [Robert C. Martin](BowlingGameKata.pdf) solution in the code base in pdf format 

# Development environment
- It requires `docker`
- Execute the following commands

```
$> make build
$> make up
$> make install 
```

- To execute the tests execute
```
$> make tests
```

- To generate the coverage at the `build/coverage` folder execute
```
$> make coverage
```

- The solution kata will be implemented and explained at the `README.md` file at the `solution` branch

# Solution
- The whole solution will be implemented following the `TDD` strategy
- For each implementation the 3 `TDD` steps will be explained in detail
    - `RED` -> fail, writing a failing test
    - `GREEN` -> fix, make the test pass quick
    - `BLUE` -> refactor, clean up the code and introduce any design if it is required
    - `NONE` -> refactor and fixes which are manly related to mistakes, findings or adding documentation out of the `TDD` process
- At every step the code coverage will be checked
- Let's start creating unit tests considering that the `Game` has a single frame and cover all the logic for a single frame
    - Edge cases
        - The `Game` does not accept negative `pins` for the `roll` method
            - `RED`: Write one unit test for the `roll` method passing negative `pins` value. Notice that the `roll` method does not even exist at this point
            - `GREEN`: Add method `roll` at `Game` class and throw an exception
            - `BLUE`: Nothing to refactor at this point. Let's continue :)
        - The `Game` allow to roll `1` `pin`
            - `RED`: write one unit test for the `roll` method passing `1` as num of `pins` parameter. Also the test would call to the not existent yet `score` method
            - `GREEN`: 
                - fix the test fast, adding a safe guard to check whether the `pins` is negative to throw the exception 
                - implement `score` method returning `1`
            - `BLUE`:
                - refactor `GameTest` to use `setUp` method to create the `Game` sut
                - implements early return at `Game roll` method in case positive or zero number
        - The `Game` does not allow more than `10` pins to be rolled
            - `RED`: Falling test try to `roll` more than `10` pins
            - `GREEN`: add to the safe guard the condition of less than `10` pins at the `roll` method
            - `BLUE`: 
                - refactor `Game roll` method to make to early returns when `pins` is negative number and when it is greater than `0`
                - refactor extract `pins` value into a variable in `GameTest` class
    - Return the real `score` value
        - `RED`: Failing test that when `roll` `2` pins `score` returns `1`
        - `GREEN`: Introduce `pinsRolled Game class field` to save the current `pins rolled` value
        - `BLUE`: Not further refactors have been identified in this iteration. Moving forward :D
    - Implements `spare` logic for a single frame
        - `RED`: failing unit test knocking down the 10 `pins` in 2 `rolls`, `score` should return `10` plus `3` which are the `pins` knock down into the next third `roll`
        - `GREEN`: sum the `pinsRolled` up
        - `BLUE`: 
            - refactor `GameTest` methods to add the `score` method name
            - refactor `Game` extracting guard logic into a method
    - Implements `spare` logic for a 2 frames
        - `RED`: failing unit test knocking down 10 `pins` in 2 `rolls`, `score` should return `10` plus the `pins` for next `frame` `3 + 3 = 6` plus `3` extra points for the `spare next roll`
        - `GREEN`: introduce array structure to store `frame` information 
            - take me a little bit more time than usual and it is not unfortunatelly a baby step. Nevertheless, I did not know how to do a shorter baby step
        - `BLUE`:
            - Turning `currentFrame` structure into integer and just use `frames` structure to store the `roll`
            - Return `reduce` response directly removing the `score` variable at `score` method
            - Update first `roll1` frame instead of checking every time the `currentFrame`
    - Implements `strike` logic
        - `RED`: failing tests that when in the first `roll` knock all pins down, the next 2 `rolls` should not just add up to the current `frame` but also to the previous one
        - `GREEN`: fix the test adding the `strike` logic at the `Game` class
        - `BLUE`:
            - refactor `score` anonymous function add `int` return type hint
            - refactor move `spare` logic into process `roll1` logic
            - refactor extract paragraph code into methods
                - extract first main `roll` logic into a method call `processFrame`
                - extract `roll1` and `roll2` logic into other methods
                - extract `processSpare` and `processStrike` into methods
    - Implements 10th frame logic
        - Implements when 11th frame without `spare` or `strike` has finished, no more rolls are allowed
            - `RED`: unit test that implements the logic of no more roll allowed at 11th frame without `spare` or `strike` on 10th frame
            - `GREEN`: fix at the `roll` method when `frame` is greather than 10, throw an exception
